README.md, before:

# Molecule Hetzner Cloud Plugin

[![PyPI Package](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/molecule-hetznercloud)](https://pypi.org/project/molecule-hetznercloud/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-LGPL-brightgreen.svg)](LICENSE)

A [Hetzner Cloud](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud) plugin for [Molecule](https://ansible.readthedocs.io/projects/molecule/).

This plugin allows you to use on-demand Hetzner Cloud servers for your molecule integration tests.

## Install

```bash
$ pip install molecule-hetznercloud
```

## Upgrade

Please see the [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) for migration guides. This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

```bash
$ pip install --upgrade molecule-hetznercloud
```

## Usage

To communicate with the Hetzner Cloud API, you need to expose a `HCLOUD_TOKEN` environment variable. Find out more about how to get a Hetzner Cloud API token in the [authentication documentation](https://docs.hetzner.cloud/#authentication).

```bash
$ export HCLOUD_TOKEN="set_the_hcloud_token_here"
```

Then setup a new molecule scenario using the driver plugin.

```bash
$ molecule init scenario --driver-name molecule_hetznercloud
```

Your `molecule/default/molecule.yml` should then look like the following.

```yaml
---
dependency:
  name: galaxy
driver:
  name: molecule_hetznercloud
platforms:
  - # Name of the Server to create (must be unique per Project and a valid hostname as per RFC 1123).
    # required
    name: instance-1
    # Name of the Image the Server is created from.
    # required
    image: debian 12
    # Name of the Server type this Server should be created with.
    # default: cx11
    server_type: cx11
    # Name of Location to create Server in (must not be used together with datacenter).
    # default: omit
    location: hel1
    # Name of Datacenter to create Server in (must not be used together with location).
    # default: omit
    datacenter: null
    # Cloud-Init user data to use during Server creation. This field is limited to 32KiB.
    # default: omit
    user_data: null

    # List of volumes to attach to the server.
    volumes:
      - # Name of the volume.
        # required
        name: volume-1
        # Size of the Volume in GB.
        # default: 10
        size: 10

    # Dictionary of private networks the server should be attached to.
    networks:
      # Name of the network
      network-1:
        # IP range of the whole network which must span all included subnets. Must be one of the private IPv4 ranges of RFC1918.
        # required
        ip_range: 10.0.0.0/16
        subnet:
          # IP to assign to the server.
          # required
          ip: 10.0.0.1/24
          # Type of subnetwork.
          # default: cloud
          type: cloud
          # Name of network zone.
          # default: eu-central
          network_zone: eu-central
      network-2:
        ip_range: 10.1.0.0/16
        subnet:
          ip: 10.1.0.1/24

provisioner:
  name: ansible
verifier:
  name: ansible
```

> ![NOTE] The `networks.ip_range` is important for creating. If you have multiple
> hosts, you may only define it once.

> ![NOTE] You may list the server types and available images using the `hcloud` command line tool:
>
> ```bash
> # List server types
> $ hcloud server-type list --sort name
> # List images for the x86 architecture
> $ hcloud image list --type system --architecture x86 --sort name
> ```

Then just test the role.

```bash
$ molecule test
```

To ease initial debugging for getting things started, also expose the following
environment variables.

```bash
$ export MOLECULE_NO_LOG=False  # not so verbose, helpful
$ export MOLECULE_DEBUG=True  # very verbose, last ditch effort
```

## Develomement

### Testing

Run unit tests:

```bash
make test
```

Run integration tests

```bash
export HCLOUD_TOKEN="SET_THE_HCLOUD_TOKEN_HERE"
make integration
```

## History

The project was initially maintained by [@decentral1se](https://github.com/decentral1se). After a long period [looking for new maintainers](https://github.com/ansible-community/molecule-hetznercloud/issues/43), the project was archived in early 2023.

In September 2023, the code has been rewritten by [@jooola](https://github.com/jooola) and the project was reactivated to continue development.

## License

The [LGPLv3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.en.html) license.

Commit message:

docs: add note about molecule init scenario

README.md, after:

# Molecule Hetzner Cloud Plugin

[![PyPI Package](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/molecule-hetznercloud)](https://pypi.org/project/molecule-hetznercloud/)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-LGPL-brightgreen.svg)](LICENSE)

A [Hetzner Cloud](https://www.hetzner.com/cloud) plugin for [Molecule](https://ansible.readthedocs.io/projects/molecule/).

This plugin allows you to use on-demand Hetzner Cloud servers for your molecule integration tests.

## Install

```bash
$ pip install molecule-hetznercloud
```

## Upgrade

Please see the [CHANGELOG.md](./CHANGELOG.md) for migration guides. This project adheres to [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html).

```bash
$ pip install --upgrade molecule-hetznercloud
```

## Usage

To communicate with the Hetzner Cloud API, you need to expose a `HCLOUD_TOKEN` environment variable. Find out more about how to get a Hetzner Cloud API token in the [authentication documentation](https://docs.hetzner.cloud/#authentication).

```bash
$ export HCLOUD_TOKEN="set_the_hcloud_token_here"
```

Then setup a new molecule scenario using the driver plugin.

```bash
$ molecule init scenario --driver-name molecule_hetznercloud
```

> ![WARNING] This only works with molecule <6.0.0, please configure the `molecule.yml` by hand.
> See [this commit](https://github.com/ansible/molecule/commit/21dcd2bb7e8e9002be8bbc19de3e66ec3ce586f1) for details.

Your `molecule/default/molecule.yml` should then look like the following.

```yaml
---
dependency:
  name: galaxy
driver:
  name: molecule_hetznercloud
platforms:
  - # Name of the Server to create (must be unique per Project and a valid hostname as per RFC 1123).
    # required
    name: instance-1
    # Name of the Image the Server is created from.
    # required
    image: debian 12
    # Name of the Server type this Server should be created with.
    # default: cx11
    server_type: cx11
    # Name of Location to create Server in (must not be used together with datacenter).
    # default: omit
    location: hel1
    # Name of Datacenter to create Server in (must not be used together with location).
    # default: omit
    datacenter: null
    # Cloud-Init user data to use during Server creation. This field is limited to 32KiB.
    # default: omit
    user_data: null

    # List of volumes to attach to the server.
    volumes:
      - # Name of the volume.
        # required
        name: volume-1
        # Size of the Volume in GB.
        # default: 10
        size: 10

    # Dictionary of private networks the server should be attached to.
    networks:
      # Name of the network
      network-1:
        # IP range of the whole network which must span all included subnets. Must be one of the private IPv4 ranges of RFC1918.
        # required
        ip_range: 10.0.0.0/16
        subnet:
          # IP to assign to the server.
          # required
          ip: 10.0.0.1/24
          # Type of subnetwork.
          # default: cloud
          type: cloud
          # Name of network zone.
          # default: eu-central
          network_zone: eu-central
      network-2:
        ip_range: 10.1.0.0/16
        subnet:
          ip: 10.1.0.1/24

provisioner:
  name: ansible
verifier:
  name: ansible
```

> ![NOTE] The `networks.ip_range` is important for creating. If you have multiple
> hosts, you may only define it once.

> ![NOTE] You may list the server types and available images using the `hcloud` command line tool:
>
> ```bash
> # List server types
> $ hcloud server-type list --sort name
> # List images for the x86 architecture
> $ hcloud image list --type system --architecture x86 --sort name
> ```

Then just test the role.

```bash
$ molecule test
```

To ease initial debugging for getting things started, also expose the following
environment variables.

```bash
$ export MOLECULE_NO_LOG=False  # not so verbose, helpful
$ export MOLECULE_DEBUG=True  # very verbose, last ditch effort
```

## Develomement

### Testing

Run unit tests:

```bash
make test
```

Run integration tests

```bash
export HCLOUD_TOKEN="SET_THE_HCLOUD_TOKEN_HERE"
make integration
```

## History

The project was initially maintained by [@decentral1se](https://github.com/decentral1se). After a long period [looking for new maintainers](https://github.com/ansible-community/molecule-hetznercloud/issues/43), the project was archived in early 2023.

In September 2023, the code has been rewritten by [@jooola](https://github.com/jooola) and the project was reactivated to continue development.

## License

The [LGPLv3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-3.0.en.html) license.
